Clean out the a flat area of land, remove all stones, and plants.
Mark the dimensions of the shelter with a 2.1 m long rope.
A dowel will represent the center of the circle.
Mark out the circle. This will be the outer line.
Repeat with 1.60m long rope.
Between the lines, dig a hole about 30 cm deep.
Add splashes of water to cure the earth and ramm it to make an even and solid surface
Let the earth dry for at least 3 days.
The cured earth should withstand the pressure of a nail. If the nail sinks, let it dry longer.
Start to fill the cavity with concrete
Flatten out the concrete. The layer should be about 10 cm thick.
Mark a new circle with a 1.85 m long rope on the center of the concrete
Mark out the centerline.
Use a 1.52 m long rope to mark eight equal segments on the centerline
Connect the measured points with straight lines.
Continue from each intersection to the next until all 8 intersections have been marked and traced.
At point of intersection, mark 12.5cm like shown.
Repeat 7 times.
Place 6 bricks around the new markings of the intersection.
Repeat 7 times.
Fill the cavity between the bricks with two outer rows of bricks like shown.
Add a middle row of bricks between the outer rows
Repeat 7 times. The cavity should have one layer of brick
Repeat until the minimum height of 0.4m is reached. Alternate bricks of each layer.
10 m long bamboo poles have different diameters in different sections.
For each panel you need 2 A, 3 B and 2 C pieces. You need 7 panels in total
The first piece has the largest diameter. Cut a 2.6m long piece with a saw.
Cut a 1.4 m long piece with a saw.
Cut a 1.75 m long piece with a saw.
One piece of bamboo should now be cut in 4. Piece P is the left over part.
Next, prepare the wooden dowles with an edge tool to match the diameter of the bambus.
Pieces A.
Hammer down a dowel on each end of the bamboo pole and secure the dowel with a nail
Cut the dowel flash with the bamboo. Add a 12 cm long piece of threaded rod in the center.
Pieces B.
Cut a wedge shape at both end of the bamboo pole. Add the dowel and secure with a nail.
Pieces C.
Add the dowel and secure it with a nail.
Cut the bamboo and the dowel at an angle of 45 degrees.
Lay out the pieces in shape of the panel.
Join A and C.
Mark, then drill a hole in piece A.
Use a hammer to join dowel of piece C to A. Make sure they are perpendicular.
Repeat with the second piece of A.
Join A and B.
Join A and B using 3 nails and a hammer.
Repeat 6 times. You will need 7 wall panels.
For the door panel you need 2 A, 3 B and 2 E pieces. You only need 1 door panel
Cut more bamboo poles until you have all the necessary pieces.
Prepare pieces A and B as shown before.
Pieces E.
Place the dowels and cut the end of the bamboo in a V shape.
Join A and C.
Mark, then drill a hole in piece A.
Use a hammer to join dowel of piece C to A. Make sure they are perpendicular.
Repeat with the second piece of A.
Join A and B.
Join A and B using 1 nail at a time and a hammer.
You now have 7 wall and 1 door panel.
Fill three of the holes in the foundation with concrete as preparation to place the first panels
Place the first panel in the holes. Make sure the direction is right.
Place the second panel. Make sure the panels are vertical.
To connect the two panels, drill a hole.
Then connect the poles with bolts and nuts.
Continue with the following panel.
Place 7 wall panels.
Place the door.
Select and prepare more bamboo poles for the pieces of the roof structure.
The first piece has the largest diameter. Cut a 2.5 m long piece with a saw.
One piece of bamboo should now be cut in 2. Piece P is the left over part.
To continue, you need 8 R
Pieces R.
Next, prepare the wooden dowles with an edge tool to match the diameter of the bambus.
Cut off the rest of the dowel. Add a carpenter nail about 6cm deep.
Cut off the rest of the dowel at a straight and 45 degree angle.
Drill a hole. The direction is important.
Lay out the pieces in the shape of the roof. The angled ends point to the center.
Using a hammer, secure T-hinge to the angled part of R piece.
The secured pieces of P should be supported to ensure stable and safe workspace.
Continue with all 8 R pieces.
Primary structure of the roof is finished.
Cut a 3.8 m long piece of sturdy bamboo with a saw.
Place it in the center.
Start to assemble the roof.
The holes in the R pieces should align with the nails of the panels.
Secure bolts with nuts and shims.
Gather all remaining pieces P.
Cut P into following lenghts with a saw.
Each bamboo lenght is needed 8 times.
Using a hammer, nail down pieces P, starting with the longest.
Use one nail per purlin.
Make sure the spac is even. Next repeat with other sections of the
The roof is finished.
Gather fresh grass growing near water.
Clean then cut the grass using a knife or saw.
Lay out the grass
Start to knit the grass matting.
Tie a not after each piece of grass.
The grass matting is finished. To store, it can be rolled.
Next, take cane/bamboo matting or fabric as a base layer.
Attach it to the roof.
Tie the matting using rope or nail the fabric down.
The base layer fastenings should have a distance of max 35 cm.
Add the grass matting.
Tie it down with a steel cable.
Tie it down with a steel cable.
Shape the grass matting.
Add 3 layers.
The grass roof is finished.
Attach cane/bamboo matting to the wall panels.
Fasten the left side with the steel cable
After fastening the matting to all the pieces of the panel, start to apply plaster
Even out the plaster with a wooden trowel.
Repeat for all 7 sides and attach fabric as door.
The walls of the shelter are completed.
Add excavated earth from first foundation cavity back to the inside of the shelter.
Cure with water and start to ram the earth.
After ramming, the flooring should be 15cm higher.
Add 10cm layer of crushed stones and incooperate into the earth with rammer and cure with water.
When the stone layer is secure, add 10 cm layer of concrete.
Flatten it out with a trovel.
Make sure the flooring goes as high as the bottom beam of the wall panels
Add a doorstep. First layer consist of 9 bricks.
Cover with concrete plaster to fasten.
The shelter is finished.
